now with Mahmud basal Mahmud is head of
communications at the Palestinian civil
defense in Gaza and um he is joining us
from inside the Gaza Strip tell us sir
what your teams have been doing in the
last 24 hours and how they've been
[Music]
operating as a matter of fact the
situation in Gaza strip all across the
strip as we speak is more than dire amid
the Relentless bombardment the Israeli
occupation forces continue to commit
massacres against Palestinians innocent
Palestinian civilians namely targeting
residential areas uh uh since the truce
came to an end the shelling of missiles
by Israeli war planes had has
intensified now residential areas are
targeted by a number of missiles it
means that missiles are fired from
different directions on one residential
quarter this causes more destruction and
higher number of victims as civil
defense teams within the areas we can
document dozens of innocent civilians
being killed on each and every air
strikes hundreds also are being wounded
we are doing all what we can with the
little resources at hand we start by
digging H in order to recover those
killed under the
debris however no matter what we do we
are not able to salvage all those who
fall uh many remain killed and buried
under the
debris at the same time uh we can speak
for days on this particular issue we at
the end of the day require heavy
equipment bulldozers and lifts in order
to be able to remove this heavy
concrete debris we also require diggers
bulldozers tractors uh LIF in order to
be able to recover those
victims I regret to say in Gaza Strip
and in the north part of the strip there
is not a single piece of equipment the
Israeli occupation forces have destroyed
all the equipment within this area as we
speak hundreds remain buried under the
debris and we are standing helpless we
cannot do anything we're using our bare
hands and this will have a very heavy
mental toll not only on the families but
also on us as civil defense and rescue
teams I also regret to say that the
numbers of victims in
thousands who are still buried under the
debris day after day this will pave the
way for an environmental issue many of
dead bodies remain bloated and wreaking
this is a source of contamination
however this has not deterred the
Israelis from continuing to bombard and
pound all the residential areas more
than 50 residential houses within one
single quarters were sheld and level To
The Ground by war planes as a result in
this particular program more than 300
civilians with from the single quarter
were killed
according to the
eyewitnesses hundreds more were injured
and again we are
helpless this particular quarter were
was once home to more than 1,000
Palestinians many of them have even
taken shelter in this area from the
Relentless shelling by the Israeli War
plan they were C killed in Cold Blood we
also again repeat the same thing that
dozens hundreds thousands remain buried
under the debris from the morning till
now the air strikes have not come to a
stop the targeting of residential areas
has not come to a stop from the morning
only more than 30 were killed and
unknown number remain buried under the
debris another residential area in for
example more than 20 were killed as a
result of one single air strike from the
sunrise this morning the Baptist
Hospital received more than
86 dead bodies by 900 a.m. more than
86 killed Palestinians arrived at the
hospital uh double higher numbers remain
buried and we are helpless we cannot do
anything especially that the Israeli war
planes continue to pound the areas
speaking of the same issue again the
equipment I again regret to say that the
Israeli occupation forces destroyed more
than 2/3 of the civil defense Vehicles
they are totally destroyed and out of
service we are short of heavy equipment
that will will enable us to remove the
heavy con concrete these are very
critical for the rescue and Salvage
these are targeted directly by the
Israeli occupation forces what adds
insult to injury is that we are short as
a team more than
120 from among our own team members were
killed hundreds of others were also
injured as a result we the civil teams
are suffering sharp shortage of team
members minutes ago only minutes ago one
of our fellow civil defense members lost
his limb his right leg was severed from
the knee as this is only an example we
are standing defenseless helpless amid
all this destruction and we cannot do
anything to our own people I can
continue to speak for days however this
ask you a specific question here if I
could jump in uh Mr basal are your teams
in the southern part of the strip you've
explained the situation in the north
where you have no more equipment all
your equipment has been destroyed
hundreds if not thousands of people
remain buried under the debris I wonder
in the southern part of the strip now
since Israel is intensifying the
bombardments there are your teams able
to move from one area to the other
whether it's Rafa whether it's hunis in
order to bring the help that is needed
after
strikes as we speak G strip is divided
into two the northern part and the
southern part it is very difficult to
move between both the sectors we tried
on a number of occasions to
at
least uh allow some of our team members
to head to the south in order to lend a
helping hand to our fellow uh teams
however those team members were detained
by the Israeli occupation forces more
than five of our team members uh were
detained and we do not know where their
whereabouts they were detained by the
Israelis aten Unice Road block and we do
not know exactly what has become of them
are they detained were they killed we do
not know that means no one is able to
move from South to the North or North to
South whatever team members in One
location they should remain and try to
operate within the very few perimeters
as they could this adds to the
difficulties we have been already facing
especially that the northern part of
Gaza Strip is reeling under intense
bombardment by the Israeli War ples
nothing but destruction magnitude of
Destruction is in unspeakable
Indescribable Mahmud basal head of
communications at the Palestinian civil
defense in Gaza thank you very much for
your time
today